Network: Add load balancer pools (#18179)
canonical/lxd: doc/howto/network_load_balancers.md

- A single listen IP address (external or internal).
- One or more named backends consisting of an internal IP and optional port ranges.
- One or more listen ports or port ranges that are configured to forward to one or more named backends.

> - One or more listen ports that are configured to forward to one ore more pools of instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- One or more listen ports that are configured to forward to one or more pools of instances.
```

Author: Sounds much better, fixed.

A pool of instances allows a more simplified definition of backends as it doesn't require additional configuration of the internal IP.

> Furthermore a pool is using health checks to identify offline backends to which the load balancer should not forward any traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore a pool uses health checks to identify offline backends to which the load balancer should not forward any traffic.
```

Author: Fixed.

    :end-before: <!-- config group network-load-balancer-load-balancer-backend-properties end -->
```

(network-load-balancers-pool-specifications)=
## Configure pools

Pools are not directly attached to a load balancer. Instead they are configured on the network and can therefore be referenced by one or many load balancers inside this network.

Use the following command to add a pool:

```bash
lxc network load-balancer pool create <network_name> <pool_name> <key>=<value>...
```

Example:

```bash
lxc network load-balancer pool create my-ovn-network https target_port=443
```

> This creates a new pool setting `443` as the target port for all instances inside the pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This creates a new pool and sets `443` as the target port for all instances inside the pool.
```

Author: Fixed.

If necessary the port can be overwritten for each instance.

### Pool properties

Network load balancer pools have the following properties:

% Include content from [../metadata.txt](../metadata.txt)
```{include} ../metadata.txt
    :start-after: <!-- config group network-load-balancer-pool-properties start -->
    :end-before: <!-- config group network-load-balancer-pool-properties end -->
```

(network-load-balancers-pool-instances-specifications)=
### Configure pool instances

> When a load balancer port references a pool, traffic can only be forwarded to the pool if it contains one ore more instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a load balancer port references a pool, traffic can only be forwarded to the pool if it contains one or more instances.
```

Author: Fixed.

Use the following command to add instances to the pool:

```bash
lxc network load-balancer pool instance add <network> <pool_name> <instance_name> [<target_port>]
```

Example:

```bash
lxc network load-balancer pool instance add my-ovn-network http i1
```

> The target port is optional in case the instance is using a custom port. If not provided the pool's target port takes precedence.

Reviewer: As I read this, "in case" seems to have two possible meanings:

1. The target port is optional *when* the instance is already using a custom port. (But would be required otherwise.)
2. The target port is optional *to allow* the instance to use a custom port.

From the examples, it seems that you mean the second option. To make the use case clear, how about:

```suggestion
The target port is optional and allows you to use a custom port for the instance.
If you do not provide a target port for the instance, the instance will use the pool's target port.
```

Author: Nice thanks, I went with your suggestion for case (2). Fixed.

(network-load-balancers-port-specifications)=
## Configure ports

You can add port specifications to the network load balancer to forward traffic from specific ports on the listen address:
- To specific ports on one or more target backends.

> - To specific ports on all the target instances inside a pool.

Reviewer: The command uses `target_pool`. Should this maybe be written as follows?

```suggestion
- To specific ports on all instances inside a target pool.
```

Author: Fixed.

Use the following command to add a port specification for explicit target backends:

```bash
lxc network load-balancer port add <network_name> <listen_address> <protocol> <listen_ports> target_backend=<backend_name>[,<backend_name>...]
```

Example:

```bash
lxc network load-balancer port add my-ovn-network 192.0.2.178 tcp 80 target_backend=test-backend
```

You can specify a single listen port or a set of ports.
The backend(s) specified must have target port(s) settings compatible with the port's listen port(s) setting.

> Use the following command to add a port specification for all target instances inside a pool:

Reviewer: Same as my previous question about `target_pool`. Can this be rewritten as follows, or does "target instance" mean something specific?

```suggestion
Use the following command to add a port specification for all instances inside a target pool:
```

Author: Fixed.

  listen_port: 70,80-90
  target_backend:
  - test-backend
- description: ""
  protocol: tcp
  listen_port: 443
  target_pool: https
```

## Edit a network load balancer pool

Use the following command to edit a network load balancer pool:

```bash
lxc network load-balancer pool edit <network_name> <pool_name>
```

This command opens the network load balancer pool in YAML format for editing.
You can edit the general configuration, as well as the instances and their target port.

Example load balancer pool configuration YAML file:

```yaml
name: https
description: ""
config:
  protocol: tcp
  target_port: "443"
instances:
- name: i1
- name: i2
- name: i3
  target_port: 8443
used_by:
- /1.0/networks/default/load-balancers/192.0.2.178
```

## Get the state of a network load balancer pool

When a pool is referenced by a network load balancer pool and contains instances, the current state of the health check can be observed for all instances in the pool.

Use the following command to get the state of a network load balancer pool:

```bash
lxc network load-balancer pool info <network_name> <pool_name>
```

> The status for each of the pool's instances is reported for each load balancer port referencing the pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The status for each of the pool's instances is reported for each load balancer port that references the pool.
```

Author: Fixed.

  listen_port: 70,80-90
  target_backend:
  - test-backend
- description: ""
  protocol: tcp
  listen_port: 443
  target_pool: https
```

## Edit a network load balancer pool

Use the following command to edit a network load balancer pool:

```bash
lxc network load-balancer pool edit <network_name> <pool_name>
```

This command opens the network load balancer pool in YAML format for editing.
You can edit the general configuration, as well as the instances and their target port.

Example load balancer pool configuration YAML file:

```yaml
name: https
description: ""
config:
  protocol: tcp
  target_port: "443"
instances:
- name: i1
- name: i2
- name: i3

>   target_port: 8443

Author: Fixed.

  listen_port: 70,80-90
  target_backend:
  - test-backend
- description: ""
  protocol: tcp
  listen_port: 443
  target_pool: https
```

## Edit a network load balancer pool

Use the following command to edit a network load balancer pool:

```bash
lxc network load-balancer pool edit <network_name> <pool_name>
```

This command opens the network load balancer pool in YAML format for editing.
You can edit the general configuration, as well as the instances and their target port.

Example load balancer pool configuration YAML file:

```yaml
name: https
description: ""
config:
  protocol: tcp
  target_port: "443"
instances:
- name: i1
- name: i2
- name: i3
  target_port: 8443
used_by:
- /1.0/networks/default/load-balancers/192.0.2.178
```

## Get the state of a network load balancer pool

> When a pool is referenced by a network load balancer pool and contains instances, the current state of the health check can be observed for all instances in the pool.

Author: Fixed.
